The components provide varied functionalities and thus are in different layers and structures as per their relevance to the layer schema. The layered hierarchy follows the below sequence.

+ **Presentation Layer:** Comprises of User Interface (UI) and UI related services of Sunbird. The Users can access Sunbird and its resources via web portal or a mobile app, envisioned for M-Learning. Moreover, presentation layer contains all the interfaces with which users can interact with Sunbird resources. Its feature-interactive and user-friendly environment allows to access the content. The presentation layer is responsible for providing input services and inputs.

+ **Business Layer:** The business layer of Sunbird contains application facade. The major functional entities of Sunbird like course assessments, users, organizations, their CRUD functions are brought about and controlled in the layer. In addition to this, the domain logic about their associations and work flow is delineated in this layer also. It overlays a way to extend Sunbird by implementing and enabling logic for plugins. It also addresses to other necessary services as authentication, authorization and other Sunbird infrastructure services. These classes are encapsulated in wrapper API’s. Moreover, these classes process user input and control output to the user also any changes are processed through this layer.

+ **Data Layer:** The data layer of Sunbird provides all data related functionalities. It provides the services for content storage, retrieval and updation. Its primary function is to keep data integration intact and keep data secure. In addition to storing content and having services for it, Sunbird data layer also provides language platforms. The language platform packages are stored and their services are part of business layer. Sunbird delivers content in intuitive and specialized way. To make this happen, business layer provides the services for data and analytics and data exhaust. It also has the responsibility to generate and store the content changes to the repository.
